---
title:  "splunk"
subtitle: "Monitoring And Analysis"
author: "Varshit Agarwal"
avatar: "img/authors/wferr.png"
image: "img/c.jpg"
date:   2015-04-22 12:12:12
---

### Introduction
Splunk provides the leading software platform for real-time Operational Intelligence. Splunk software and cloud services enable organizations to search, monitor, analyze and visualize machine-generated big data coming from websites, applications, servers, networks, sensors and mobile devices. Enterprises, government agencies, universities and service providers in over 90 countries use Splunk software to deepen business and customer understanding, mitigate cybersecurity risk, prevent fraud, improve service performance and reduce cost.
### Work
Splunk's core offering collects and analyzes high volumes of machine-generated data. It uses a standard API to connect directly to applications and devices. It was developed in response to the demand for comprehensible and actionable data reporting for executives outside a company's IT department.

Splunk Enterprise Security (ES) is a security information and event management (SIEM) solution that provides insight into machine data generated from security technologies such as network, endpoint, access, malware, vulnerability and identity information. Its a premium application that is licensed independently from Splunk core.

In 2011, Splunk released Splunk Storm, a cloud-based version of the core Splunk product. Splunk Storm offered a turnkey, managed and hosted service for machine data. In 2013, Splunk announced that Splunk Storm would become a completely free service and expanded its cloud offering with Splunk Cloud. In 2015, Splunk shut down Splunk Storm.

In 2013, Splunk announced a product called Hunk: Splunk Analytics for Hadoop, which supports accessing, searching, and reporting on external data sets located in Hadoop from a Splunk interface.

In 2015, Splunk announced a Light version of the core Splunk product, aimed at smaller IT-environments and mid-sized enterprises. Splunk debuted Splunk IT Service Intelligence (ITSI) in September 2015. ITSI leverages Splunk data to provide visibility into IT performance. Software analytics can detect unusual behavior and determine its causes and the areas it affects.

In 2016, Google announced its cloud platform will integrate with Splunk to expand in areas like IT ops, security, and compliance.The company also announced additional machine learning capabilities for several of its major product offerings, which are installed on top of the platform.

In 2017, Splunk introduced Splunk Insights for ransomware, an analytics tool for assessing and investigating potential threats by ingesting event logs from multiple sources. The software is targeted toward smaller organizations like universities. The company also launched Splunk Insights for AWS Cloud Monitoring, a service to facilitate enterprises' migration to Amazon Web Services' cloud.

In 2018, Splunk introduced Splunk Industrial Asset Intelligence, which extracts information from IIoT(Industrial Internet of Things) data from various resources and presents its users with critical alerts.
