---
title:  "Delphix"
subtitle: "Secure & Manage Data"
author: "Varshit Agarwal"
avatar: "img/authors/wferr.png"
image: "img/f.jpg"
date:   2018-12-25 12:12:12
---

### Introduction
Delphix Corp. delivers Data as a Service solutions in data center, and private or public cloud infrastructure worldwide. The company offers Delphix, a Data as a Service software platform that helps enterprises manage and accelerate application projects, including ERP rollouts, custom development, and migrations to private and public clouds, as well as creates secure virtual copies of databases, applications, and file systems; Delphix for SAP, a software that cuts SAP upgrade, patching, and development cycles, while lowering the ongoing ownership cost of SAP systems; and Delphix Oracle EBS Module that provides upgrading of EBS environmental projects in half the time.

### About Delphix.
Some enterprise landscapes are filled with disparate data sources including multiple data warehouses, data marts, and/or data lakes, even though a Data Warehouse, if implemented correctly, should be unique and a single source of truth. Data virtualization can efficiently bridge data across data warehouses, data marts, and data lakes without having to create a whole new integrated physical data platform. Existing data infrastructure can continue performing their core functions while the data virtualization layer just leverages the data from those sources. This aspect of data virtualization makes it complementary to all existing data sources and increases the availability and usage of enterprise data.

Data virtualization may also be considered as an alternative to ETL and data warehousing. Data virtualization is inherently aimed at producing quick and timely insights from multiple sources without having to embark on a major data project with extensive ETL and data storage. However, data virtualization may be extended and adapted to serve data warehousing requirements also. This will require an understanding of the data storage and history requirements along with planning and design to incorporate the right type of data virtualization, integration, and storage strategies, and infrastructure/performance optimizations (e.g., streaming, in-memory, hybrid storage).
